I am not a Republican. I am not a Democrat.

Headlines like these:

 * [GOP introduces plan to massively cut Social Security](http://finance.yahoo.com/news/gop-introduces-plan-to-massively-cut-social-security-222200857.html)

 * [The House GOP Just Revealed Its Plan To Cut Social Security](http://www.motherjones.com/contributor/2016/12/republicans-want-to-cut-social-security)

 * [Key House GOPer Introduces Bill With Major Cuts To Social Security](http://talkingpointsmemo.com/dc/republican-bill-social-security-cuts)
   
exemplify the preference of both parties for bashing the other side rather
than working together for the good of everyone.

If we look at the
[analysis of Social Security's Chief Actuary](https://www.ssa.gov/oact/solvency/SJohnson_20161208.pdf),
it becomes clear that the relevant choice for the American people is not
whether or not to cut social security benefits but when and by how much. 

If we maintain the current system with no change (what the Democrats call
"no cuts"), the social security trust fund will run out of money in 2034.
At that point, benefits *will* be cut to about 74% of their promised level
for everyone.

Under Representative Johnson's proposal, benefits would be cut more
modestly sooner in exchange for long term sustainability of the system,
with the most vulnerable retirees receiving the smallest (or no) cuts. The
system would pay 85% to 100% of promised benefits for the foreseeable
future.

Which would you prefer? 

 * Permanent cuts to 75% of benefits for everyone...
 
or 

 * Temporary cuts to 85% to 90% of benefits targeted to spare the most
   vulnerable?

Is Representative Johnson's proposal the only way to make Social Security
long term sustainable? Probably not. Could the Democrats come up with
something better? Maybe, but that's not what they're doing.

Instead, Democrats are using Social Security as a political football to
frighten you with the terrible ways Republicans want to spoil your
retirement. They are (falsely) implying that:

 * A feasible option is keeping 100% of promised benefits forever without
   making any changes to the system.
 * Republicans want to take away your retirement and make you miserable.

We should all grow up and quit whining. This is simple budgeting for the
future. If Democrats don't like Representative Johnson's proposal, they
should field their own proposal so the details can be discussed and we can
make a sensible choice. Sensationalizing the issue for political gain is
irresponsible.

I am not advocating the Republican position here. I'm just saying that the
Democrats are acting like spoiled brats. Sometimes Republicans do that too.
It would be far more productive for both sides to act like adults and work
together to craft a sustainable safety net for all of us. I guess that's
too much to ask.

If you were confronted with this situation in your household finances:

 * Spend everything you've got, borrow some more and spend that too, and go
   into bankruptcy in six months
   
or

 * Cut back on some of the discretionary spending so that you can keep up
   with your bills and stay in the black,
   
which would you choose?
